Restructuring API documentation (#160)
Altinn/altinn-studio-docs: content/teknologi/altinnstudio/altinn-api/_index.md

 - /altinn-api/
---

## The APIs

The new solution will have multiple APIs, but they can be divided in two groups. The App APIs and the Platform API.

### Application API

The application API is an API that provides access to specific instances of a specific app. The API provides features for working with data elements while keeping the metadata document for the instance and its data elements updated. The instance level endpoints revolves around moving an instance through its defined process and controlling some instance level settings.

> Metadata for an App is the second job of the App API. There are endpoint that gives access to the metadata of the App itself, its data types and process deescription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metadata for an app is the second job of the App API. There are endpoint that gives access to the metadata of the App itself, its data types and process deescription.
```

Reviewer: or are you consciously refering to the app with a capital A?

Author: I have, but that doesn't make it right. The goal was to emphasis that it isn't just any app, but Altinn App. Not sure if it works.

Reviewer 2: > that it isn't just any app, but Altinn App.

@SandGrainOne What do you mean by "Altinn App"? Having to ask, it probably does not work :-P

Author: @altinnadmin does you comment mean that you want us to write **app** and not **App**?

Reviewer 2: When describing an app, or functionality or APIs related to an app, it should always be lowercase.
Uppercase only when we're referring to "Altinn Apps" (the infrastucture) or when App is used in namespace/packages.

You also seem to be using "App API" as a short-hand form for [Altinn.App.Api](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Altinn.App.Api/) ? Might cause confusion since "app API" will be the entire API surface of an app, which might be larger than Altinn.App.Api.

> Metadata for an App is the second job of the App API. There are endpoint that gives access to the metadata of the App itself, its data types and process deescription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metadata for an App is the second job of the App API. There are endpoint that give access to the metadata of the App itself, its data types and process deescription.
```

> Every App will expose almost identical endpoints and functionality. External parties should need only one client implementation across all App APIs. Technically there is nothing preventing an application owner from adding or making changes to the API, but in those cases it is probably an application with a different process flow. Applications like that would in most cases require some special handling and have their own documentation provided by the application owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every App will expose almost identical endpoints and functionality. External parties should need only one client implementation across all App APIs. Technically there is nothing preventing an application owner from adding or making changes to the API, but in those cases it is probably an application with a different process flow. In these cases, the application might require some special handling, and additional documentation should be provided by the application owner.
```

```http
https://{org}.apps.altinn.no/{org}/{appname}
```

> The URL identifies the application owner **org** specific hostname and the identificator of the App **org/appname**. 

Reviewer: could we add some punctuation to this sentence to make it more readable? Thinking mostly about the "the application owner org specific hostname" part

### Platform API

> The Platform API are primarily made to support the applications hosted on the platform, but all GET methods can be used directly by both application owners and users.

Reviewer: "The APIs are"  or "The API is"

> The storage API provides access to all instances across all applications. It can be used to access metadata about applications, instances, data elements and events, as well as the actual data content. This API should be the preferred method for application owners to download data associated with instances created based on their applications, and for user applications with a form of message box and the need to retrieve archived instances and their data.

Reviewer: Should we refer to storage with capital S to indicate that is it Platform Storage ? 

Regarding events in the list of the metadata to be accessed. how can we make it clear that it it's Platform Events events, but instanceEvents we are refering to?

Reviewer: The last sentence is a bit word heavy.. Is there a way it can be restructured so that it is easier to read?

The authentication API provides methods for authentication.

```http
https://platform.altinn.no
```

## API user groups

There are primarily two groups of users of the Altinn APIs. The first group consists of applications and systems used by the owners of the Apps hosted by Altinn. This group is called *Application Owners*. The second group consists of organisations and people using the Apps to communicate with the application owners. This group is called *Application Users*. 

> The two groups have many similar needs, but there are also differences in what type of tasks they need to be able to perform. All new APIs will be available to both groups, but some endpoints and features will normally only be used by one of them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two groups have many similar needs, but there are some differences in what type of tasks they need to perform. All new APIs will be available to both groups, but some endpoints and features will normally only be used by one of them. 
```

Reviewer: Is it true that all new APIs are available to both groups? All endpoints that are authorized based on scopes won't be available to the end users.
